---
title: Ethics Paper
---
# Ethics
[Pdf Version]({{"/pdfs/ethics.pdf" | absolute_url }})

Having a “Code of Ethics” is important for a numerous amount of reasons. One cannot interact in the professional world with some form of ethics. The purpose of a “Code of Ethics” is to propose a set of rules for people to follow and abide by that casts responsibility among everyone. I believe it is also important to follow a “Code of Ethics” because it offers protection situations that can destroy careers and harm others if followed correctly. When faced with an ethical situation, before I would just handle the situation to the best of my knowledge not following any rules or guidelines. However, after learning about “Code of Ethics” and talking about it in or small groups with a professor I now see the benefits of following such instructions. Nevertheless, before learning about the “Code of Ethics” factors that contributed to my decisions when faced with an Ethical Decision were my personal future based on the outcome and what effects would the outcome have on the others the decision might effect. In a group setting when faced when the situation commonly others had the same opinions. They were like in that everyone shared most of the same personal morals and agreed to do to good thing in the situation. However, from discussing the case studies my group discussed in class I have learned that is not the way things turn out in industry. The 3 top virtues that related to the case study that we discussed that were broken by the companies were responsibility, honesty, and integrity.
